# Agenda

- Updates: What did we get done this week? What is currently in progress?
- Blockers: What do we need the community's feedback on?
- Meetings: What meetings need to occur?

# Attendees

Mek, Charles, Neal, Brenton, Bernat, David

# Updates

## Charles

Aggregating list of (unofficial) endpoints. Documenting merging strategy
Question about bulk upload API? Does it exist?

## Bernat

Welcome! Bernat is working on a mentorship mobile app.
Suggests react + less, would like overview of feature/beta branch

## David

Open Book genome project. Improving data we have: Using openlibrary-client tool, metatools, librarything
- Metadata format

## Neal

Was originally downloading warc files -- give me all pdfs
researcher vm w/ batch of pdfs on them

## Brenton

## Mek

- Met with Jean Saung about service design (creating an ecosystem diagram for Open Library) https://docs.google.com/a/archive.org/document/d/1RUsUnIJM78gTr5ycewUJNwYHERBQdg_Tv-X-OZpwtRY/edit?usp=sharing
- (PR in progress) Added remote_ids: wikidata, VIAF, and librarything IDs to author edit page
- Mek will write script to ingest 90k Author records and link them to wikidata + VIAF
- Worked on experimental mobile design for OL + started an experimental front-end which uses existing APIs to createaa combined works & editions page concept
- Openlibrary-client -- created librarything API (xisbn) (tool for @dvd and @charles)

# Meetings

- Nicholas, Irene, Mek, Bernat, Jean, Brenton -- some subset of this group should meet or contribute to the ecosystem diagrem (it would be great if Jean can describe the purpose of this doc; I'll do my best)
